The programming errors that could be causing the crash are:

1- Random variable - The application may use some random number or variable component that may not be fixed for every
execution of the program. Examples include user input, a random number generated by the program, or the time of the day.
To test this error: the program could be tested on different inputs to see how it behaves (such as if the crash only
happens on particular inputs). Also, the source code could be checked for any variables that depend on random generated
numbers or day / time attributes.

2- Uninitialized variable - The application could have an uninitialized variable which, in some languages, may cause it
to take on an arbitrary value. The values of this variable could result in the code taking a slightly different path each time.
To test this error: runtime tools could be used to check for uninitialized variables during the execution of the application.

3- Memory leak - The program may have run out of memory. Other culprits are totally random for each run since it depends
on the number of processes running at that particular time. This also includes heap overflow or corruption of data on the
stack.
To test this error: it could be tested by closing all the other applications, running the application and monitoring the
overall system memory usage before and at the moment of the crash. If the crash happens because of a memory leak this
would identify the part of the application that is consuming the most memory (or where memory started to increase above
the expected). Another approach is to run the application on another machine and see if the crash still happens.

4- External dependencies - The program may depend on another application, machine, or resource. If there are multiple
dependencies, the program could crash at any point.
To test this error: it can be tested by elimination, disabling dependencies where possible. Also, tests could be written
to check if dependencies are returning data in the expected format during the application execution.

Additionally, we should learn as much as possible about the application: who is running it, what are they doing with it,
what kind of application it is.
Also, it is important to search for patterns: does the crash happens only on specific components or scenarios?
For example, it could be that the application never crashes if it is simply launched and left untouched, and that
crashes only appear at some point after loading a file. Or, it may be that all the crashes take place within the lower
level components, such as file I/O.